the array of laptops we lined up to take
a look at nvidia's new super rtx mobile
gpus didn't make it in time because of a
little global pandemic so
new plan
gigabyte sponsored this video to show
off the rs15g and an all-new design from
them that they claim is the gaming
notebook redefined but for us it also
happens to house a brand new 10th gen
cpu from intel and a shiny new rtx super
gpu from nvidia so we're going to use it
to take a closer look at intel's claims
about how much faster 10th gen designs
will be compared to gaming laptops from
three years ago
have cpu's really gotten that much
faster
or is something else at play here
spoiler alert
it's something else
[Music]
when questioned intel acknowledged that
the comparison to three-year-old laptops
was not really apples to apples and
while we have gone from 7th gen all the
way to 10th gen mobile cpus a big chunk
of that performance is coming from the
graphics card improvements in that time
but that doesn't mean that both sides
aren't contributing here the brains of
our unit is an intel core i7 10875h
now as far as we can tell it's pretty
much just a refined 9th gen chip with
slightly higher clocks but guys a laptop
with 8 cpu cores that can boost up to 2
of them to 5.1 gigahertz is nothing to
sneeze at it's now faster than anything
you could have bought for your
mainstream desktop three years ago let
alone something you could have got in a
laptop the improvement over last gen is
pretty incremental though so i can see
why intel compared to a laptop from
three years ago in their slides our new
i7 seems to have marginally better
single threaded performance than our 9th
gen i9 and actually ends up losing
slightly in multi-threaded applications
if we're going to see big improvements
in cpu performance over last gen it
looks like it's up to the laptop
manufacturers to throw some seriously
thick thermal and power delivery
solutions at the 10th gen designs there
are two main areas that the new temp gen
cpus might help with gaming performance
though the first is thermal velocity
boost or tvb originally introduced in
coffee lake h
tvb has existed recently in desktop
chips but it was actually disabled by
default and it's probably best known for
the multi-core enhancement fiasco a year
ago when asus motherboards that enabled
it by default performed much better than
their
real default counterparts well now this
feature is available on almost every
10th gen mobile chip and is probably
what helped our i7 beat the old i9 in
single threaded tasks the second area of
the 10th gen processor will help improve
gaming performance in is by including 16
pci express lanes for the graphics card
this is actually the first time ever
that laptop gpus are going to be getting
a full 16x interface to play with
instead of the eight lanes that they're
accustomed to how much of a difference
will that make in the real world
probably not a whole lot outside of some
specific professional workloads but it
is nice to see nonetheless now let's
talk super the 2070 super in the ers 15g
gets 256 more cuda cores than its
non-super cousin and as for the clock
speed well
as usual that's going to depend largely
on the laptop manufacturer since on
mobile the amount of power and cooling
available actually makes a much bigger
difference to how fast the gpu will go
than nvidia's spec sheet does maybe the
most interesting feature of the super
mobile gpus is the inclusion of dynamic
boost which balances the load between
the cpu and gpu based on the task so
here's how the concept works let's say
some laptop x has a 140 watts of cooling
available with a cpu that can drop to 70
watts and a gpu that could draw up to
clearly 170 watts is greater than 140
but for most situations that doesn't
really matter because there are very few
workloads where a cpu and a gpu would
both be fully utilized at exactly the
same time so say in a visually demanding
game like shadow of the tomb raider the
gpu is going to get its full 100 watts
of power while the cpu jogs along at 40
watts or so and everyone stays nice and
cool while you get the most fps out of
your game
then you go and boot up cs go
you're a pro and you need at least 400
fps to hit your leap flick shots well
your cpu is going to pin it at 5
gigahertz while your gpu takes a nap in
the shade it's up to manufacturers
though to make sure that there's enough
power available to take advantage of
this so gigabyte has enabled this by
including a 230 watt power adapter to
drive the cpu and gpu at over 170 watts
combined
these power management improvements by
the way will work with both intel and
amd cpus which is excellent
in theory now let's take a look at the
real world in practice our rtx 2070
super was able to net us about a 10 to
15 performance improvement in games
compared to a similar class non-super
laptop
nice of course in most situations a
desktop rtx 2070 super will beat it in
battle but surprisingly in rainbow six
siege the aorus 15g actually pulled off
a w against our i9 9900k equipped
desktop now i'm certain that if we took
the time to overclock the 9900k or even
just enable multi-core enhancement it
should win but it does go to show you
just how much performance is being
strangled out of these mobile chips
these days impressively the rs15g was
able to put up these numbers without us
having to apply a turbo profile or
anything like that gigabyte has employed
microsoft's azure ai to automatically
switch between power profiles that
optimize for power and cooling in a
heavy task quiet during lighter loads
and then extended battery while on the
go another feature of this super gpu
update is advanced optimus
og optimus was designed to switch
between a powerful nvidia gpu for gaming
and an efficient on-board gpu for
lighter tasks but it had some drawbacks
neither g-sync nor high refresh rate
displays could use it
well advanced optimus apparently fixes
those issues and while the ars15g here
isn't equipped with g-sync so we
couldn't test that it was able to get 7
hours on battery while its display was
refreshing itself 240 times per second
quite impressive although some of this
is probably due to gigabyte including a
massive 94 watt hour battery gigabyte
claims it's possible to get over 8 hours
of battery life and if you were to turn
down the refresh rate that actually
seems very attainable now let's take a
closer look at the star of today's show
the styling of the rs15g strongly
reminds me of the civic type bar with
its spoiler-like accents and heaps of
venting dedicated to airflow for a
gaming laptop it's still a little well
gamery but if it's too much for you the
aero lineup will greet you with open
arms it sports very solid i o with three
type a's thunderbolt gigabit ethernet
and a full-sized uhs-2 sd reader and
gigabyte seems especially proud of the
fact that you can connect three 4k
displays via the full-size hdmi mini
displayport and thunderbolt port i mean
given there's a 240hz panel with pantone
calibration already attached to it most
people probably won't bother buying
something separate unless they're trying
to get some work done in between gaming
sessions but hey it's there the most
interesting part of the rs15g has got to
be its fully mechanical keyboard though
with slim clicky omron switches
now if i'm being honest this keyboard
broke my brain a little bit when i first
started using it because you do have to
use it kind of more like
a real desktop keyboard this does mean
that you'll be giving up some of the fun
tricks of more traditionally cramped
laptop keyboards where the keycaps are
right next to each other like quickly
swiping across adjacent keys
but the extra travel and the clickiness
did lead to a definite increase in
typing accuracy once i got used to it in
many ways you could see it as the
complete opposite of apple's butterfly
switches apples are bursty and quick
perfect for sending ims whereas these
are a much more deliberate feel like i'm
sitting down to start a thesis
now given they're made by omron and
rated for 15 million presses they should
hopefully also be the opposite of apples
for reliability too
zing as for the pricing nvidia
surprisingly didn't adjust their super
lineup upward so the rtx 2070 model of
the rs15g comes in at 2 000 while the
2070 super version is 2200 so it gets a
better gpu and an upgrade to windows 10
pro what this basically means is that
the rtx 2070 super is occupying roughly
the same price as the old rtx 2070 the
2070 is actually about the price of an
old 2060 and the new 2060 which is
faster than the old 2060 but lack super
branding for some reason
is looking quite compelling at a price
similar to the old 1660 ti basically if
you're looking for a new gaming laptop
you're going to be getting a bit more
bang for your buck than you would have a
couple months ago which is awesome and
what else is awesome gigabyte thank you
for sponsoring this video and especially
managing to get a laptop in our hands at
least close to the nvidia super mobile
launch so thank you guys for that and
you can check them out at the link in
the video description
if you're looking for another video to
watch maybe check out our
original
super coverage there you go
how much better are super gpus now
you'll know for sure